All right.
So now that we have a high level overview of transform Let's actually dive into some of the functions
that they talked about.
And the first one we'll talk about is called translate or translation.
So what this will allow us to do is essentially shift something across the screen up or down left or
right or any combination of those using x and y coordinates.
So here's an example.
This will take all divs and shift them over a hundred pixels on the x axis axis.
In this case translate X there's also translate Y and then there's also just a translate where you can
pass into values which I'll show all three versions just a moment.
So again transform is a property colon the function.
And in this case I'm using translate X which will shift this over all divs one hundred pixels to the
right.
So rather than just trusting me let's hop over to code Penn I have a very simple demo setup.
I have four paragraphs their styled exactly the same.
Right now they just have a width and height to make them square 50 pixels and then a background color
so we can see them no content inside.
However I've given two of them classes.
Move right and move down.
They currently don't do anything.
There are no corresponding styles but we're about to change that.
So what we'll do is use translate to move this paragraph to the right so we'll select it first.
Well do not move Dasch right.
Or we could have just done move right and we'll start.
Let's change the color.
So it stands out a bit background color.
I gave myself a little cheat sheet appear so I didn't have to remember these.
Not that it matters.
OK.
So this blue one you want to shift to the right.
So we'll use transform colon translate and we'll start with translate X and it's up to us let's say
let's do 100 pixels to make it clear.
And there we go.
It's moved over 100 pixels to the right.
Now I could do a thousand pixels move it far away.
You could do one pixel and just barely shift it.
But I'll keep it at 100 for now.
I could also do negative like let's do negative 10 and you could see starts to go off the screen.
But it is offset 10 pixels.
OK back to 100.
Let's do the same thing now for move down.
And let me just copy this color again.
It's a white background color so this div here at the bottom that yellow orange one will do a transform
and make this a bit bigger.
And rather than doing translate X I'm going to do translate y this time and move it down let's do 20
pixels for now.
And you can see it shifted down.
If I comment this out and save comes back up on comments it moves down.
So that's the basic tip translate.
But I did mention that there's a third variation just regular translate where you pass in two values.
And so we can take a look at that.
Now let's do it with a hover.
So P hover we'll translate things over it.
So we'll do a transform translate and not X or Y you just translate and then let's pass and something
like 20 pixels comma 20 pixels just like that.
So now let's go to this first one here.
You can see I've translated it down and to the right because I did 20 pixels to the right 20 pixels
down x and then y goes.
Same thing here.
And you might notice something a bit odd.
When I do it on the two that have already been translated over it's not moving down to the right and
that's because translite is still working with the same original origin.
So it still is treating our paragraph like it was centered over here.
And so it's moving at 20 pixels down and 20 pixels over from here which should be around there which
is what's happening.
Same thing here.
It's only moving it over 20 pixels because we've already shifted it down 20 pixels.
So there are ways around this.
But the honest truth is that usually you're not translating things like this if you want something to
start out 20 pixels over or 100 pixels over.
You just have it start out there without having to translated translate is usually used in cases like
this.
Even though this is a hideous and it's not even animation.
This is a hideous experience.
Translators usually used when it's triggered.
So something is rotated something is translated over scaled whatever the transform is.
It's not usually happening when the page loads because otherwise you should just have that default state
already initialized there's no reason to have to use transform when there are plenty of other valid
ways of moving things.
So this is really mainly reserved for things like animations hover whatever other states you have.
OK.
So just to wrap up translate the passage in along with transform so we can't just do translate on us
on its own it's part of transform the function.
There's translate X translate Y and then translate which takes X and Y and then that weird little gotcha
thing is that if we've already translated something over if we then further translate it still working
with the original origin.
Like I said there is a way around this.
There's a property that allows you to change the origin.
But really the better way of doing it is just putting something where you want it when the page loads
and then translating it from there rather than doing a double translate.
OK so let's translate.
We're going to move on.
Talk about rotate and scale next.